README.md, before:

# Embodied Emotions Scripts

## Installation

1. [Install pip](http://pip.readthedocs.org/en/latest/installing/)
2. [Install git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
2. Clone the Embodied Emotions Scripts repository

    git clone git@github.com:NLeSC/embodied-emotions-scripts.git

3. Change directory to the Embodied Emotions Scripts directory

    cd embodied-emotions-scripts

4. Install the requirements

    pip install -r

5. Start using the scripts or iPython notebooks.

## Notebooks

Many of the Embodied Emotions Scripts can be accessed through iPython notebooks
([more info on iPython notebooks](http://ipython.org/notebook.html)).

To use them, start the terminal/command line. Change directories to where the
Emodied Emotions Scripts are stored. Start the iPython notebook server by typing

    ipython notebook

Click on the notebook you want to use.

There are 7 notebooks:

* `00_CreateClassifiers.ipynb`
* `01_CreateDataForPrediction.ipynb`
* `02_ClassifyTexts.ipynb`
* `03_AnalysisCorpora.ipynb`
* `04_HEEMLabelsResults.ipynb`
* `05_EmotionBodyPartsResults.ipynb`
* `corpus metadata for DANS.ipynb`

Notebooks 03--05 were used to do the analyses for paper 3. These can be used as
an example of how to analyse new classified texts.

The corpus metadata notebook was used to create the metadata .csv file for the
HEEM dataset that will be transfered to DANS.

## Code

Code is in de `embem` directory.

### Body parts

`make_body_part_mapping.py` -> Make a mapping from body part words to categories (extended body parts)  
`classify_body_parts.py` -> Find known body parts in sentences with predicted label 'Lichaamsdeel'

### Corpus

`ceneton2txt.py` -> Script to collect ceneton texts from the ceneton website  
`copy_corpus.sh` -> Copy folia files for texts in corpus.csv to a new directory  
`copy_edbo_titles.py` -> Script that copies the files of edbo titles that are both available and selected (contains hard-coded file paths for convenience)  
`create_additional_metadata.py` -> Script to create a csv containing additional metadata about corpus texts  
`edbo_list2url.py` -> Script to add delpher links to a list of edbo titles  
`genre2period.py` -> Print table with # of texts per genre and period

### Debates

Scripts used during the guest lecture at the VU on December 1, 2014.

`debates2csv.py` -> Script to extract counts for words in word field
`debates2txt.py` -> Script to save text in xml file(s) to text file(s)

### Elasticsearch

Scripts to do things with Elasticsearch.

`embem-tags2es.py` -> Script to put embodied emotions entity categories in elasticsearch  
`folia2es.py` -> Script to put a folia xml file in ElasticSearch  
`liwc2es.py` -> Script to put liwc entity categories in elasticsearch  
`liwcpairs2es.py` -> Script to put Body/Posemo pairs in elasticsearch (does not work, because there are no folia files that contain liwc entities in the data dir. _The script also seems unfinished, because it only creates pairs for Posemo words._)

### Emotools

Helpers for the other scripts.

### Folia

Scripts to do things with folia files.

`add_liwc_entities.py` -> Add LIWC words as entities in FoLiA XML files
`batch_add_liwc_entities.sh` -> Batch add LIWC entities to FoLiA files (run from project directory)
`annotation_statistics.py` -> Count the numbers of annotated entities and emotional sentences in the corpus that was manually annotated. Prints tab separated data to std out.  
`folia2txt.py` -> Script to extract text from a folia xml file (use with batch_do_python.sh)  
`generate_lmf_lexicon.py` -> Script to generate a LMF xml lexicon from a directory with Folia files with embem annotations
`inspect_folia.py` -> Inspect FoLiA XML file to determine whether it matches our expectations (old, not used for project, because none of the files matched our expectations)

### Kaf-tag

Scripts to do things with kaf/tag files.

`generate_kaf.sh` -> Batch generate kaf-files from folia files (run from project directory)  
`folia2kaf.py` -> Create a KAF file for each act in a FoLiA file (used with `generate_kaf.sh`)  

Because for some reason, we used different folia files to generate the tag files and these folia files were  not available anymore, the tag files needed fixing.
`batch_fix_tags.sh` -> Batch fix word ids in the tag-files (run from project directory)
`fix_tags.py` -> Script that generates a tag file with new word ids

`batch_add_tags.sh` -> Batch add annotations in tag files to FoLiA files (run from project directory)  
`kaf2folia.py` -> Insert KAF annotations into a FoLiA files (used with `batch_add_tags.sh`)

`folia2naf.py` -> Create a NAF file containing a terms layer from FoLiA files.  
`emotions_layer.py` -> Add emotions layer to naf document containing terms layer.  
`add_emoclusters.py` -> Add emoVals of heem clusters and heem posneg to naf documents.  

### LIWC

`print_liwc_cat.py` -> Script to print all words in a LIWC category to std out  
`liwc2csv.py` -> Script to generate statistics on LIWC entities for each folia file in a directory  

### Machine Learning

`br_classifier.py` -> Script to train binary relevance classifiers  
`do_br.sh` -> Bash script to run all br experiments  
`rakel_clf.py` -> Script to train rakel classifiers  
`do_rakel.sh` -> Bash script to run all rakel experiments  
`rakel.py` -> Class to create RAKEL classifier  
`rakel_save_clf.py` -> Script to train rakel classifier (based on all data) and save classifier object  
`classify.py` -> Script to classify new data  
`mlutils.py` -> Utils for the machine learning scripts

### Machine Learning Data

Contains scripts to generate input for machine learning (training classifiers) and scripts to generate results based on the output of machine learning.

#### Input

`folia2dataset_multilabel.py` -> Create multilabel data set to train embodied emotions classifiers (sentences with labels)  
`folia2dataset_emo_sentences.py` -> Create data set to train emotional sentence classifier (sentence with 0 or 1)  
`folia2dataset_for_prediction.py` -> Create text files for prediction (sentences with None)  
`create_multilabel_train_and_test_set.py` -> Create 10 different train and test sets (used for determining classifier performance)  
`generate_labels_json.py` -> Generate json objects storing the label replacements for diffent subdivisions of the emotion labels  
`transform_labels.py` -> Generate text files with transformed labels (e.g., HEEM -> HEEM emotion clusters)
`txt2for_prediction.py` -> Script to convert text file to input for embem classifier
`merge_data_and_labels.py` -> Merge sentences from one file to HEEM labels in another

#### Output

`label_density.py` -> Calculate label density and cardinality of the complete dataset
`count_labels.py` -> Script to write csv file with label counts for each text  
`count_labelsets.py` -> Count labelsets that occur in the multilabel data  
`calculate_significance.py` -> Script that calculates statistical significance between two experiments  
`calculate_average_f1.py` -> Script that calculates average F1 scores for all labels  

### Spelling Normalization

`generate_historic_bwnt.py` -> generate historic version of bwnt word list  
`generate_historic_liwc.py` -> generate historic version of LIWC dictionary  
`generate_historic_wnaffect.py` -> generate historic version of wordnet affect word list
`normalize_dataset.py` -> script to spelling normalize machine learning input  
`normalize_dataset_parallel.py` -> parallel version of `normalize_dataset.py`  
`prune_dict.py` -> Script to remove modern variants from modern to historic
mapping (modern spelling variants do not have to be replaced)  
`reverse_dict.py` -> Reverse modern->historic spelling variants dictonary to
historic->modern mappings

### Visualization Data

`folia2visualization-pairs.py` -> Create data set for visualization assignment  
`generate_emotion2bodyparts.py` -> Create csv files with emotions in the first
column and a column for every expanded body part  
`predictions2emotion_expanded_bodypart_pairs.py` -> Generate pairs (emotion
label - expanded body part) for predicted labels.  
`predictions2emotion_concept_pairs.py` -> Generate emotion label - concept type
pairs for predicted labels  
`json2csv.py` -> save data from the entity_vis/embem_entity_graph_title graph to
csv

### Embem

Other scripts.

`heem2csv.py` -> Count the numbers of words annotated with heem entities in the annotation corpus
`translate_labels.py` -> Translate Dutch HEEM labels to English

Commit message:

Update for creating naf files for new DBNL texts

README.md, after:

# Embodied Emotions Scripts

Update 2022-08-28: added a Dockerfile and updated the code to be able to create 
naf files with embodied emotions predictions for new DBNL texts. (See also: 
[embem-folia-naf](https://github.com/jvdzwaan/embem-folia-naf))
## Installation

1. [Install pip](http://pip.readthedocs.org/en/latest/installing/)
2. [Install git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
2. Clone the Embodied Emotions Scripts repository

    git clone git@github.com:NLeSC/embodied-emotions-scripts.git

3. Change directory to the Embodied Emotions Scripts directory

    cd embodied-emotions-scripts

4. Install the requirements

    pip install -r

5. Start using the scripts or iPython notebooks.

## Notebooks

Many of the Embodied Emotions Scripts can be accessed through iPython notebooks
([more info on iPython notebooks](http://ipython.org/notebook.html)).

To use them, start the terminal/command line. Change directories to where the
Emodied Emotions Scripts are stored. Start the iPython notebook server by typing

    ipython notebook

Click on the notebook you want to use.

There are 7 notebooks:

* `00_CreateClassifiers.ipynb`
* `01_CreateDataForPrediction.ipynb`
* `02_ClassifyTexts.ipynb`
* `03_AnalysisCorpora.ipynb`
* `04_HEEMLabelsResults.ipynb`
* `05_EmotionBodyPartsResults.ipynb`
* `corpus metadata for DANS.ipynb`

Notebooks 03--05 were used to do the analyses for paper 3. These can be used as
an example of how to analyse new classified texts.

The corpus metadata notebook was used to create the metadata .csv file for the
HEEM dataset that will be transfered to DANS.

## Code

Code is in de `embem` directory.

### Body parts

`make_body_part_mapping.py` -> Make a mapping from body part words to categories (extended body parts)  
`classify_body_parts.py` -> Find known body parts in sentences with predicted label 'Lichaamsdeel'

### Corpus

`ceneton2txt.py` -> Script to collect ceneton texts from the ceneton website  
`copy_corpus.sh` -> Copy folia files for texts in corpus.csv to a new directory  
`copy_edbo_titles.py` -> Script that copies the files of edbo titles that are both available and selected (contains hard-coded file paths for convenience)  
`create_additional_metadata.py` -> Script to create a csv containing additional metadata about corpus texts  
`edbo_list2url.py` -> Script to add delpher links to a list of edbo titles  
`genre2period.py` -> Print table with # of texts per genre and period

### Debates

Scripts used during the guest lecture at the VU on December 1, 2014.

`debates2csv.py` -> Script to extract counts for words in word field
`debates2txt.py` -> Script to save text in xml file(s) to text file(s)

### Elasticsearch

Scripts to do things with Elasticsearch.

`embem-tags2es.py` -> Script to put embodied emotions entity categories in elasticsearch  
`folia2es.py` -> Script to put a folia xml file in ElasticSearch  
`liwc2es.py` -> Script to put liwc entity categories in elasticsearch  
`liwcpairs2es.py` -> Script to put Body/Posemo pairs in elasticsearch (does not work, because there are no folia files that contain liwc entities in the data dir. _The script also seems unfinished, because it only creates pairs for Posemo words._)

### Emotools

Helpers for the other scripts.

### Folia

Scripts to do things with folia files.

`add_liwc_entities.py` -> Add LIWC words as entities in FoLiA XML files
`batch_add_liwc_entities.sh` -> Batch add LIWC entities to FoLiA files (run from project directory)
`annotation_statistics.py` -> Count the numbers of annotated entities and emotional sentences in the corpus that was manually annotated. Prints tab separated data to std out.  
`folia2txt.py` -> Script to extract text from a folia xml file (use with batch_do_python.sh)  
`generate_lmf_lexicon.py` -> Script to generate a LMF xml lexicon from a directory with Folia files with embem annotations
`inspect_folia.py` -> Inspect FoLiA XML file to determine whether it matches our expectations (old, not used for project, because none of the files matched our expectations)

### Kaf-tag

Scripts to do things with kaf/tag files.

`generate_kaf.sh` -> Batch generate kaf-files from folia files (run from project directory)  
`folia2kaf.py` -> Create a KAF file for each act in a FoLiA file (used with `generate_kaf.sh`)  

Because for some reason, we used different folia files to generate the tag files and these folia files were  not available anymore, the tag files needed fixing.
`batch_fix_tags.sh` -> Batch fix word ids in the tag-files (run from project directory)
`fix_tags.py` -> Script that generates a tag file with new word ids

`batch_add_tags.sh` -> Batch add annotations in tag files to FoLiA files (run from project directory)  
`kaf2folia.py` -> Insert KAF annotations into a FoLiA files (used with `batch_add_tags.sh`)

`folia2naf.py` -> Create a NAF file containing a terms layer from FoLiA files.  
`emotions_layer.py` -> Add emotions layer to naf document containing terms layer.  
`add_emoclusters.py` -> Add emoVals of heem clusters and heem posneg to naf documents.  

### LIWC

`print_liwc_cat.py` -> Script to print all words in a LIWC category to std out  
`liwc2csv.py` -> Script to generate statistics on LIWC entities for each folia file in a directory  

### Machine Learning

`br_classifier.py` -> Script to train binary relevance classifiers  
`do_br.sh` -> Bash script to run all br experiments  
`rakel_clf.py` -> Script to train rakel classifiers  
`do_rakel.sh` -> Bash script to run all rakel experiments  
`rakel.py` -> Class to create RAKEL classifier  
`rakel_save_clf.py` -> Script to train rakel classifier (based on all data) and save classifier object  
`classify.py` -> Script to classify new data  
`mlutils.py` -> Utils for the machine learning scripts

### Machine Learning Data

Contains scripts to generate input for machine learning (training classifiers) and scripts to generate results based on the output of machine learning.

#### Input

`folia2dataset_multilabel.py` -> Create multilabel data set to train embodied emotions classifiers (sentences with labels)  
`folia2dataset_emo_sentences.py` -> Create data set to train emotional sentence classifier (sentence with 0 or 1)  
`folia2dataset_for_prediction.py` -> Create text files for prediction (sentences with None)  
`create_multilabel_train_and_test_set.py` -> Create 10 different train and test sets (used for determining classifier performance)  
`generate_labels_json.py` -> Generate json objects storing the label replacements for diffent subdivisions of the emotion labels  
`transform_labels.py` -> Generate text files with transformed labels (e.g., HEEM -> HEEM emotion clusters)
`txt2for_prediction.py` -> Script to convert text file to input for embem classifier
`merge_data_and_labels.py` -> Merge sentences from one file to HEEM labels in another

#### Output

`label_density.py` -> Calculate label density and cardinality of the complete dataset
`count_labels.py` -> Script to write csv file with label counts for each text  
`count_labelsets.py` -> Count labelsets that occur in the multilabel data  
`calculate_significance.py` -> Script that calculates statistical significance between two experiments  
`calculate_average_f1.py` -> Script that calculates average F1 scores for all labels  

### Spelling Normalization

`generate_historic_bwnt.py` -> generate historic version of bwnt word list  
`generate_historic_liwc.py` -> generate historic version of LIWC dictionary  
`generate_historic_wnaffect.py` -> generate historic version of wordnet affect word list
`normalize_dataset.py` -> script to spelling normalize machine learning input  
`normalize_dataset_parallel.py` -> parallel version of `normalize_dataset.py`  
`prune_dict.py` -> Script to remove modern variants from modern to historic
mapping (modern spelling variants do not have to be replaced)  
`reverse_dict.py` -> Reverse modern->historic spelling variants dictonary to
historic->modern mappings

### Visualization Data

`folia2visualization-pairs.py` -> Create data set for visualization assignment  
`generate_emotion2bodyparts.py` -> Create csv files with emotions in the first
column and a column for every expanded body part  
`predictions2emotion_expanded_bodypart_pairs.py` -> Generate pairs (emotion
label - expanded body part) for predicted labels.  
`predictions2emotion_concept_pairs.py` -> Generate emotion label - concept type
pairs for predicted labels  
`json2csv.py` -> save data from the entity_vis/embem_entity_graph_title graph to
csv

### Embem

Other scripts.

`heem2csv.py` -> Count the numbers of words annotated with heem entities in the annotation corpus
`translate_labels.py` -> Translate Dutch HEEM labels to English
